[Upgrade] Add Initial Part of Upgrade to Sylius 2.0 (#17253)
Sylius/Sylius: UPGRADE-2.0.md

# UPGRADE FROM `1.14` TO `2.0`

## Initial part

Even if your app is barely customized, it will require some manual adjustments before it can run again. Depending on
whether you use Symfony Flex, some of these changes may be applied automatically, but it’s important to check them
manually regardless.

```md
#config/packages/_sylius.yaml

imports:
...
+   - { resource: "@SyliusPayumBundle/Resources/config/app/config.yaml" }
```

```md
#config/routes/sylius_shop.yaml

sylius_shop_payum:
-   resource: "@SyliusShopBundle/Resources/config/routing/payum.yml"
+   resource: "@SyliusPayumBundle/Resources/config/routing/integrations/sylius_shop.yaml"

sylius_payment_notify:

> +   resource: "@SyliusPaymentBundle/Resources/config/routing/integrations/sylius.yaml"

Author: I’m not sure whether it should be configured in the `config/routes/sylius_shop.yaml` shop file or in a separate one.

Reviewer: Can be in the `sylius_shop` routing file, **but** should not be localised (since that'd make the route unnecessarily stateful), it might be a good idea to add this info here (same deal w/ payum routes).

# UPGRADE FROM `1.14` TO `2.0`

## Initial part

Even if your app is barely customized, it will require some manual adjustments before it can run again. Depending on
whether you use Symfony Flex, some of these changes may be applied automatically, but it’s important to check them
manually regardless.

* Packages configuration changes:

> ```md
> #config/packages/_sylius.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```diff
# config/packages/_sylius.yaml
```

imports:
...
+   - { resource: "@SyliusPayumBundle/Resources/config/app/config.yaml" }

...

sylius_payment:
    resources:
+       gateway_config:
+           classes:
+               model: App\Entity\Payment\GatewayConfig

...

sylius_payum:
    resources:
-       gateway_config:
-           classes:
-               model: App\Entity\Payment\GatewayConfig
```

> * API firewalls have been renamed and user checkers have been configured on firewalls
>   with `security.user_checker.chain.<firewall>` service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* API firewalls have been renamed and user checkers have been configured on
  them with `security.user_checker.chain.<firewall>` services:
```

```diff
#config/packages/security.yaml

security:
    firewalls:
        admin:
            ...
+           user_checker: security.user_checker.chain.admin
-       new_api_admin_user:
+       api_admin:
            ...
+           user_checker: security.user_checker.chain.api_admin
-       new_api_shop_user:
+       api_shop:
            ...
+           user_checker: security.user_checker.chain.api_shop
        shop:
            ...
+           user_checker: security.user_checker.chain.shop
```

To reflect these changes, the route configuration must be updated accordingly:

```diff
# config/routes/sylius_api.yaml

sylius_api:
    resource: "@SyliusApiBundle/Resources/config/routing.yml"
-   prefix: "%sylius.security.new_api_route%"
+   prefix: "%sylius.security.api_route%"

> ```

Reviewer: This is not related to the security configuration above, it's a change of parameters and fits more under `routing changes`

* Routing changes (note that these shop routes are not localized with the prefix: /{_locale} configuration entry):

> ```md
> #config/routes/sylius_shop.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``` diff
# config/routes/sylius_shop.yaml
```

sylius_shop_payum:
-   resource: "@SyliusShopBundle/Resources/config/routing/payum.yml"
+   resource: "@SyliusPayumBundle/Resources/config/routing/integrations/sylius_shop.yaml"

sylius_payment_notify:
+   resource: "@SyliusPaymentBundle/Resources/config/routing/integrations/sylius.yaml"

```

* Bundle configuration changes:

> ```md
> #config/bundles.php

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```diff
# config/bundles.php
```

-   winzou\Bundle\StateMachineBundle\winzouStateMachineBundle::class => ['all' => true],
-   Bazinga\Bundle\HateoasBundle\BazingaHateoasBundle::class => ['all' => true],
-   JMS\SerializerBundle\JMSSerializerBundle::class => ['all' => true],
-   FOS\RestBundle\FOSRestBundle::class => ['all' => true],
-   ApiPlatform\Core\Bridge\Symfony\Bundle\ApiPlatformBundle::class => ['all' => true],
-   SyliusLabs\Polyfill\Symfony\Security\Bundle\SyliusLabsPolyfillSymfonySecurityBundle::class => ['all' => true],
+   ApiPlatform\Symfony\Bundle\ApiPlatformBundle::class => ['all' => true],
+   Sylius\TwigHooks\SyliusTwigHooksBundle::class => ['all' => true],
+   Symfony\UX\TwigComponent\TwigComponentBundle::class => ['all' => true],
+   Symfony\UX\StimulusBundle\StimulusBundle::class => ['all' => true],
+   Symfony\UX\LiveComponent\LiveComponentBundle::class => ['all' => true],
+   Symfony\UX\Autocomplete\AutocompleteBundle::class => ['all' => true],
];

* New Symfony/Messenger transports for handling payment requests have been added. 
Therefore, you need to add the following configuration to your .env file:
```md
###> symfony/messenger ###
...

> SYLIUS_MESSENGER_TRANSPORT_PAYMENT_REQUEST_DSN=doctrine://default?queue_name=payment_request
> SYLIUS_MESSENGER_TRANSPORT_PAYMENT_REQUEST_FAILED_DSN=doctrine://default?queue_name=payment_request_failed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SYLIUS_MESSENGER_TRANSPORT_PAYMENT_REQUEST_DSN=sync://
SYLIUS_MESSENGER_TRANSPORT_PAYMENT_REQUEST_FAILED_DSN=sync://
```
Async payment request can't be supported by Sylius right now, I made a PR (already merged) about this default value.

> Therefore, you need to add the following configuration to your .env file:
> ```md
> ###> symfony/messenger ###
> ...
> SYLIUS_MESSENGER_TRANSPORT_PAYMENT_REQUEST_DSN=doctrine://default?queue_name=payment_request
> SYLIUS_MESSENGER_TRANSPORT_PAYMENT_REQUEST_FAILED_DSN=doctrine://default?queue_name=payment_request_failed
> ###< symfony/messenger ###
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, you need to add the following configuration to your .env file:

```diff
###> symfony/messenger ###
...
+ SYLIUS_MESSENGER_TRANSPORT_PAYMENT_REQUEST_DSN=doctrine://default?queue_name=payment_request
+ SYLIUS_MESSENGER_TRANSPORT_PAYMENT_REQUEST_FAILED_DSN=doctrine://default?queue_name=payment_request_failed
###< symfony/messenger ###
```
```

Example:
`$argon2i$v=19$m=65536,t=4,p=1$VVJuMnpUUWhRY1daN1ppMA$2Tx6l3I+OUx+PUPn+vZz1jI3Z6l6IHh2kpG0NdpmYWE`

> If some of your users do not have the hasher name stored in the password field you may need to configure the "
> migrate_from" option into Symfony, following that documentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If some of your users do not have the hasher name stored in the password field you may need to configure the
"migrate_from" option by following the documentation:
```

## Payment method gateways

* Stripe gateway has been removed. This implementation has been deprecated and not SCA Ready.

> * PayPal Express Checkout gateway has been removed. Use
>   now [PayPal Commerce Platform](https://github.com/Sylius/PayPalPlugin) integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PayPal Express Checkout gateway has been removed.
  Use the [PayPal Commerce Platform](https://github.com/Sylius/PayPalPlugin) integration.
```

## Theming

> * Dependency on `sylius/theme-bundle` is moved from CoreBundle to ShopBundle and it will no longer be installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `sylius/theme-bundle` dependency has been moved from CoreBundle to ShopBundle, so it will no longer be installed
```
